Ingredients

1 onion
2 medium sized eggplants
1 cauliflower, cut into small florets
1kg of meat (chicken, lamb or beef works) diced or cut into pieces
2 cups of plain rice
4 cloves of garlic
2 tsp turmeric powder
1 tsp cumin
1 tsp Baharat (“7 spices”). Note: this can be obtained at most Middle Eastern grocers, but if not, you can make your own. The 7 spice blend is a mix of ground spices: black pepper, paprika, cumin, coriander, cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, cardamom. Go easy on the cardamom if making your own – it’s quite strong!
2 bay leaves
1 cup fresh parsley, chopped
salt & pepper to taste
Optional (but it’s good, trust me): sliced almonds and pine nuts.

Instructions

Preliminary steps:

Peel and cut up the eggplant into thick horizontal slices and marinate them in salt for 2 minutes. Wash the eggplant in water to get rid of the salt, and then drain the slices over paper towels.
Soak 2 cups of rice in warm water with two pinches of salt and 2 teaspoons turmeric powder and leave for 30 minutes.
In a large saucepan, fry the cauliflower florets and eggplant slices until brown. (Alternatively, these can be roasted.) Put in a strainer until completely drained.
In the same pan, heat the almond pieces and pine nuts until they are fried. Set aside for later.
Place meat into a large pot and cover with water. Add in an onion chopped into quarters, the bay leaves the 7 spices mix and cook until meat is done, approximately 30 minutes.
Remove the meat and season with salt, saving the broth for later in a bowl.

Time to build your pot:

In your large pot (the one you used to cook the chicken), layer the cauliflower florets and eggplant in a desired pattern, then add the chicken pieces as a third layer.
Spread the garlic cloves over the meat, and then arrange the rice over it all.
Add some salt and additional turmeric powder and cumin powder to the chicken stock, then pour it on top of the stack you have just built. Make sure the sauce just covers the rice (2cm over the rice is ideal).
Cook the saucepan on high heat for 7 minutes, and then cover and simmer for 40-45 minutes.
When the water has fully evaporated (and the rice is fully cooked) take the pot off the heat and leave to cool.
Flip the pot onto a serving plate and slowly and carefully remove the pot leaving a your masterpiece in its wake.
Garnish with fresh parsley and the fried nuts.